Israel's prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu has canceled a visit to
Washington by an Israeli delegation
after the United States did not veto a
un Security Council resolution demanding
a truce between Israel and Hamas the
resolution calls for a humanitarian
ceasefire in Gaza for the remainder of
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan if
passed or it passed 14 to zero after the
United States abstained and did not
employ its veto power the US previously
vetoed three resolutions demanding a
ceasefire the council has been divided
over the Israel Hamas War since the
October 7 Terror attacks on
Israel I'm now joined by Rebecca rers in
Jerusalem and Stefan Simons in
Washington welcome to you both uh first
to you Stefan the UN Security Council
demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza
this is the first time the UN Security
Council has called for
this yes uh that's true uh there were
four resolutions attempts uh which
called for a ceasefire on the tale
before three were vetoed by the US one
was vetoed that was last Friday by China
and Russia that was the draft the US put
forward now we have it this was a
resolution drafted by Chinese and
Russian diplomats as well as supported
by the block of Arab Nations 22 in the U
in at the UN now
us diplomats and other diplomats of
course at the UN had worked all weekend
long to massage to tweet uh tweak the
the text which came forward then as a
resolution and the US abstained to
however the uh US ambassador ambassador
to the UN Linda Thomas greenfeld said
that she was not and the US is not happy
with everything said and how it was
spelled out in this revolution but that
the US agreed to the fundamentals
meaning there must be the US wants also
a ceasefire in the United States and
more more rapid Aid into Gaza that's why
the US
abstained uh Rebecca the decision of the
UN Security Council came as a surprise
to many and Israel has reacted harshly
after that decision tell us
more yeah we've actually just been
hearing from the Israeli ambassador to
the UN gillad Eran he's been addressing
the the security Council uh He Came Out
Swinging condemning the council for not
having come out in these last six months
to condemn the Hamas attack he was
saying that it was double standards that
the security Council he used the example
of the recent attack in Moscow that the
security Council came out immediately to
condemn that attack but they haven't
done the same in the six months against
the Hamas attack he said that this was a
disra Grace and that the UN should look
at its moral contradiction he then went
on to reiterate a statement that the
prime minister's office came out with
almost immediately after the vote uh
that statement saying that that the US's
decision not to veto a resolution or any
resolution that supports the ceasefire
without the release of the hostages uh
in fact hurts the war effort and hurts
their attempts to get the hostages out
the prime ministers of first Benjamin
Netanyahu has then almost immediately as
soon as the vote was announced cancelled
uh a delegation an Israeli delegation
that was meant to head to the US today
to meet with um American and a US
delegation to discuss the ongoing uh
operation in Gaza particularly when it
comes to Rafa and going forward now we
know that the US have been trying to
coax Israel away from a major offensive
in Rafa and that's something that Israel
says they're not willing to do but they
were willing to send this delegation
that is something that has now been
cancelled however the defense minister
yav Galant is already in the US and will
be meeting with representatives there to
discuss that raer operation but yes and
definitely some strong reaction here
from from Israel what do you think this
is going to do Rebecca to relations
between Israel and us which are so
important in how this war goes ahead in
Gaza well Ben this is certainly a blow
to the bilateral us Israel relations
that have been uh very strong during
this war now prior to the war breaking
out we did see that relationship uh
falter slightly the US Administration
under uh President Biden and the Israeli
Administration under Benjamin Netanyahu
not always seeing eye to eye Visa
particularly changes trying being made
to the Supreme Court or attempts uh of
the Israeli government to do that so we
did see some uh friction there already
but as soon as uh the Hamas attack on
October 7th we saw the US come out in
complete support they have been standing
side by side with Israel throughout this
last nearly six months uh but we have
been seeing the US rhetoric change uh in
recent days uh days if not weeks we've
been starting to see their uh their yeah
rhetoric as I say to particularly when
it comes to this Rafer this you know
planned raffer offensive change they're
starting to step away they're trying to
urge Israel uh not to go in that
direction and they they're seeing
friction with uh relationship so we're
definitely seeing that further tarnished
today with this decision not to veto
this Security Council vote and the the
the relationship certainly being
strained we've seen one failed vote
after the next uh this really is a a
huge breakthrough of types uh Stefan can
you bring us any reaction otherwise from
Washington as to this breaking
news Well toward us the uh un vote there
is no reaction from the White House per
se but of course the White House
expressed its disappointment that Israel
and Benjamin netan canceled the
delegation visit to the US however as
Rebecca pointed out the Israeli defense
minister is here and is going to meet
and talk to SEC National Security
advisor Sullivan and he is the top dock
in National Security here at the White
House so this is not a a meeting which
shouldn't be underestimated however as
Rebecca also pointed out the US um has
and President Biden himself has said now
very very clearly uh and straight
forward that they do not want Israel to
go forward with any operation into Rafa
uh secretary of state blinkin had to
hear this from prime minister
Netanyahu uh on Friday uh while the CIA
director William Burns was negotiating
hostages in Qatar with uh uh through
Qatar with Hamas uh so this is what the
US is is hoping to focus on now the
hostage negotiation they want everybody
to support um Hamas to accept the deal
uh to release hostages that's important
for uh the Biden Administration also
politically here inside the United
States but uh and Biden has said as much
uh there is uh all options are on the
table when it comes to what support is
on The Chopping Block if Israel goes
into Rafa with a uh sustained military
operation uh that's not what the Biden
Administration wants and uh it looks
like as Rebecca hinted at this or said
frankly too uh relations are not at
their best at the moment having said
that it is also prudent to remember that
Israel will be as well as you the US
will be vice versa always a key Ally to
uh each other the US to Israel and
Israel uh in this region for the US you
heard it from stepan Simons there and
Rebecca ridd is our correspondents both
from Washington and Jerusalem thank
you